* Give me an example of a problem you faced on the job, and tell me how you solved it.

STRATEGY: 
The problem you select to use as an example should be as similar as possible to a problem you are likely to face at your new job.
1) Identify their "pain points" or current challenges you think they might be facing, 
2) explain the POSITIVE OUTCOME and MEASURABLE RESULTS you achieved by solving a similar problem at your last job, then 
3) get them to agree with you that your experience in that area is exactly what they're looking for.

Here's the basic answer formula:
"Sure, at my last job we had a problem where the situation was "X" ... the action I took was "Y" ... and the positive outcome was "Z" ... 
In an email to the entire team I was praised by Susan, the Project Manager, for solving the problem and cutting costs about 15% for that project. 
We were also able to deliver in about ⅔ the time it would have taken us otherwise. 
What I learned from the situation was "ABC." 
I think that's the type of experience you are looking to bring to your team, isn't it?"

"I think my experience with [Company XYZ] in cutting costs 30% / saving 20 man-hours of work per week / increasing revenue by 14% / getting the job done about 50% faster / decreasing turn-around time by ⅓ / helping customers 20% more of the time is the type of experience that will help me succeed in this role ..."

"... Plus my strengths in [industry knowledge / time management / goal-setting / teamwork / empowering others / persuasive presentations / partnering & negotiating / innovation & creativity / strategic leadership / special skill ] really make me a strong candidate." (Don't be bashful — You've gotta say stuff like this!)

… then get them to agree with you:
"You'd agree that having this type of experience would probably help me succeed in this position … wouldn't you?" ￼ (say it with a smile)

"Would that type of problem-solving experience be relevant to this job?"


What did you like best and least about your previous job?
STRATEGY: This is potentially a trick question. You want to indicate that what you liked best about your last job are things that will appeal to the Hiring Manager. Show that your last job allowed you to demonstrate many of the positive and desirable Behavioral Competencies that are discussed in-depth at the beginning of the Guide. Give specific examples of how your last job allowed you to flex your skills and show your maturity. When answering about what you liked least, keep it short and do not be negative.
"What I liked about my last was I was able to really develop my "XYZ" skills which I know will help me succeed here if I am fortunate enough to be able to join your team. What are the qualities of the people who have been most successful in your department?"

(Notice the "data-mining" question ↑↑ about the skills and characteristics of other people. You're sniffing for clues about what they want to hear!)

"One thing I liked about my last job was it allowed me to develop my project management skills ... FOR EXAMPLE, I was put in charge of a project where I had to earn the "buy-in" of people from several different departments — and I had all the responsibility for getting the project completed but no real authority over my teammates. I was successful because I involved key stakeholders from the beginning. My team knew that other people were on board, so I was able to negotiate them to an agreement on deadlines. Then day-to-day I made sure everyone was completing their work on time by setting up a progress tracking system … Can I tell you about it?"

Interview Question
What's the worst mistake you ever made on the job, and what did you learn from it?
STRATEGY: Think about what they want to hear. Show that you are able to learn from your mistakes, but don't offer up any negative examples concerning your past performance. Show that you have been successful, but that you have the maturity it takes to examine your own behavior so you can learn and grow and be a better employee. Be brief.
"Good question. Well, I have been successful at every job I've had, but I have had the normal ups and downs. I'd say that I do actively try to monitor the quality of my work so I can constantly be improving myself. FOR EXAMPLE, I have had one or two hiccups with clients (or customers) where their satisfaction was not exactly where I thought it was. I learned that I have to really monitor certain difficult clients closely and "take their temperature" so I can keep their satisfaction level as high as possible. Have YOU had any customers like that here?"

“... Bob's materials not only offer a ton of specifics on how to get hired, but also motivate the reader to prepare with confidence! ...”
Interview Question
Describe a situation when working with a team produced more successful results than if you had completed the project on your own.
STRATEGY: This is another Behavioral Interview style of question. The Hiring Manager wants to learn more about your thought process, and how well you can form examples to answer this teamwork-related question. You will want to show your ability to solicit ideas from others, listen carefully, and persuade people to your point of view.
"Well, throughout my career I've worked both independently and as a member of many teams. I have to say, though, that collaborating with other people across departments is always a good idea — specifically when it comes to brainstorming and knowledge sharing. When it's appropriate, I try to get outside perspectives on possible solutions. I did that a lot at Job 'ABC'. FOR EXAMPLE … and the OUTCOME was a roughly 30% increase in cost-savings for the company, and a significant decrease in the time it took to complete the project."

"Would that type of experience be relevant to this job? ... Great! ... So when do I start? ..." ￼ (don't be afraid so throw some humor in if it's going well!)
